content/download/index.md, before:

---
title: LibrePCB Downloads
type: download
---

Here you can download official LibrePCB releases.

Please read the [Getting Started Guide](https://docs.librepcb.org/#gettingstarted-installation)
for installation and usage instructions.

# <i class="icon-windows8"></i> Windows

### <i class="icon-install"></i> [Download LibrePCB Installer for Windows](https://download.librepcb.org/releases/{{< latest_version >}}/librepcb-installer-{{< latest_version >}}-windows-x86.exe)

Alternative: [Portable ZIP](https://download.librepcb.org/releases/{{< latest_version >}}/librepcb-{{< latest_version >}}-windows-x86.zip) (extract & run)


# <i class="icon-tux"></i> Linux

### <i class="icon-install"></i> [Download LibrePCB Installer for Linux](https://download.librepcb.org/releases/{{< latest_version >}}/librepcb-installer-{{< latest_version >}}-linux-x86_64.run)

Alternative: [AppImage](https://download.librepcb.org/releases/{{< latest_version >}}/librepcb-{{< latest_version >}}-linux-x86_64.AppImage) (set executable flag & run)


# <i class="icon-apple"></i> MacOS

### <i class="icon-install"></i> [Download LibrePCB Installer for MacOS](https://download.librepcb.org/releases/{{< latest_version >}}/librepcb-installer-{{< latest_version >}}-mac-x86_64.dmg)

Alternative: [App Bundle](https://download.librepcb.org/releases/{{< latest_version >}}/librepcb-{{< latest_version >}}-mac-x86_64.dmg)


# <i class="icon-code"></i> Source

Alternatively you could build LibrePCB from
[sources](https://download.librepcb.org/releases/{{< latest_version >}}/librepcb-{{< latest_version >}}-source.zip).
The Git repository is hosted [at GitHub](https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB).

See [README.md](https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/blob/master/README.md)
for instructions and
[LICENSE.txt](https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)
for legal conditions.

Commit message:

Add links to Flatpak and AUR packages

content/download/index.md, after:

---
title: LibrePCB Downloads
type: download
---

Here you can download official LibrePCB releases.

Please read the [Getting Started Guide](https://docs.librepcb.org/#gettingstarted-installation)
for installation and usage instructions.

# <i class="icon-windows8"></i> Windows

### <i class="icon-install"></i> [Download LibrePCB Installer for Windows](https://download.librepcb.org/releases/{{< latest_version >}}/librepcb-installer-{{< latest_version >}}-windows-x86.exe)

Alternative: [Portable ZIP](https://download.librepcb.org/releases/{{< latest_version >}}/librepcb-{{< latest_version >}}-windows-x86.zip) (extract & run)


# <i class="icon-tux"></i> Linux

### <i class="icon-install"></i> [Download LibrePCB Installer for Linux](https://download.librepcb.org/releases/{{< latest_version >}}/librepcb-installer-{{< latest_version >}}-linux-x86_64.run)

Alternatives for various distributions: [Flatpak](https://flathub.org/apps/details/org.librepcb.LibrePCB) or
[AppImage](https://download.librepcb.org/releases/{{< latest_version >}}/librepcb-{{< latest_version >}}-linux-x86_64.AppImage)
(set executable flag & run)

Arch Linux: [librepcb](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/librepcb/) (builds from source)
or [librepcb-appimage](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/librepcb-appimage/) (downloads binary)


# <i class="icon-apple"></i> MacOS

### <i class="icon-install"></i> [Download LibrePCB Installer for MacOS](https://download.librepcb.org/releases/{{< latest_version >}}/librepcb-installer-{{< latest_version >}}-mac-x86_64.dmg)

Alternative: [App Bundle](https://download.librepcb.org/releases/{{< latest_version >}}/librepcb-{{< latest_version >}}-mac-x86_64.dmg)


# <i class="icon-code"></i> Source

Alternatively you could build LibrePCB from
[sources](https://download.librepcb.org/releases/{{< latest_version >}}/librepcb-{{< latest_version >}}-source.zip).
The Git repository is hosted [at GitHub](https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB).

See [README.md](https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/blob/master/README.md)
for instructions and
[LICENSE.txt](https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)
for legal conditions.
