content/download/index.adoc, before:

---
title: "Download"
type: download
icon: "fa-solid fa-download"
weight: 60
---

:version: {{< param latestVersion >}}
:releases-url: https://download.librepcb.org/releases/
:base-url: {releases-url}{version}
:windows-installer-url: {base-url}/librepcb-installer-{version}-windows-x86.exe
:windows-zip-url: {base-url}/librepcb-{version}-windows-x86.zip
:linux-installer-url: {base-url}/librepcb-installer-{version}-linux-x86_64.run
:linux-appimage-url: {base-url}/librepcb-{version}-linux-x86_64.AppImage
:linux-archive-url: {base-url}/librepcb-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
:mac-installer-url: {base-url}/librepcb-installer-{version}-mac-x86_64.dmg
:mac-bundle-url: {base-url}/librepcb-{version}-mac-x86_64.dmg
:source-url: {base-url}/librepcb-{version}-source.zip

[subs="attributes"]
++++
<p class="text-muted">Latest stable version: {version}</p>
++++

[TIP]
====
For help & more information, check out the
https://librepcb.org/docs/installation/[*installation instructions*].
====

[.download-section.windows]
== {{< icon "fa-brands fa-windows" >}} Windows

_Requirements: Windows 7 or later._

[subs="attributes"]
++++
<div class="d-flex flex-column flex-lg-row my-3">
  <a class="btn btn-primary btn-download windows download-link me-2" role="button"
     href="{windows-installer-url}" >
    <i class="fa-solid fa-download"></i>
    Download Installer for Windows
  </a>
  <span class="align-self-center">
    <span class="d-none d-md-inline-block">Alternative:</span>
    <a href="{windows-zip-url}" class="download-link">Portable ZIP</a>
  </span>
</div>
++++

[.download-section.macos]
== {{< icon "fa-brands fa-apple" >}} MacOS

_Requirements: MacOS 11 Big Sur or later (64-bit)._

[subs="attributes"]
++++
<div class="d-flex flex-column flex-lg-row my-3">
  <a class="btn btn-primary btn-download macos download-link me-2" role="button"
     href="{mac-bundle-url}">
    <i class="fa-solid fa-download"></i>
    Download Bundle for MacOS
  </a>
  <span class="align-self-center">
    <span class="d-none d-md-inline-block">Alternative:</span>
    <a href="{mac-installer-url}" class="download-link">Installer</a>
  </span>
</div>
++++

[.download-section.linux]
== {{< icon "fa-brands fa-linux" >}} Linux

[NOTE]
====
LibrePCB is contained in several app stores / software centers, just search
for "LibrePCB" to find and install it. If it doesn't exist, use one of the
installation options below.
====

[subs="attributes"]
++++
<div class="d-flex flex-column flex-lg-row my-3">
  <a class="btn btn-primary btn-download linux download-link me-2" role="button"
     href="{linux-installer-url}">
    <i class="fa-solid fa-download"></i>
    Download Installer for Linux
  </a>
  <span class="align-self-center">
    <span class="d-none d-md-inline-block">Portable alternatives:</span>
    <a href="{linux-appimage-url}" class="download-link">AppImage</a>
    | <a href="{linux-archive-url}" class="download-link">Archive</a>
  </span>
</div>
++++

_Important:
https://librepcb.org/docs/installation/linux/[Set the executable flag]
before starting the installer or AppImage!_

App Stores::
  Install the
  https://snapcraft.io/librepcb[Snap Package from Snapcraft] or the
  https://flathub.org/apps/details/org.librepcb.LibrePCB[Flatpak from Flathub].

Arch Linux::
  Install https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/librepcb/[librepcb]
  (builds from source)
  or https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/librepcb-appimage/[librepcb-appimage] (downloads binary) from the AUR.

NixOS::
  Install the
  https://search.nixos.org/packages?from=0&size=50&sort=relevance&type=packages&query=librepcb[librepcb]
  package.

OpenPandora::
  Install https://repo.openpandora.org/?page=detail&app=librepcb[librepcb]
  from the OpenPandora Repository.

[.download-section.bsd]
== {{< icon "fa-brands fa-freebsd" >}} BSD

FreeBSD::
  Install the https://www.freshports.org/cad/librepcb/[librepcb] port.

== {{< icon "fa-solid fa-code" >}} Source

[subs="attributes"]
++++
<div class="d-flex flex-column flex-lg-row my-3">
  <a class="btn btn-secondary me-2" role="button" href="{source-url}" >
    <i class="fa-solid fa-download"></i>
    Download Source
  </a>
  <span class="align-self-center">
    <a href="https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB"><i class="fa-brands fa-github"></i> Repository</a>
    | <a href="https://librepcb.org/docs/installation/build-from-sources/">Instructions</a>
    | <a href="{{< relref "about/license/index.adoc" >}}">License</a>
  </span>
</div>
++++

== {{< icon "fa-solid fa-timeline" >}} Older Releases

All current and previous releases are available at {releases-url}.

// Modal dialog after download.
++++
<div class="modal fade" id="download-dialog" tabindex="-1"
     aria-labelledby="download-dialog-label" aria-hidden="true">
  <div class="modal-dialog modal-dialog-centered">
    <div class="modal-content">
      <div class="modal-header">
        <h1 class="modal-title fs-5" id="download-dialog-label">
          Thank you for choosing LibrePCB!
          <i class="fa-solid fa-rocket"></i>
        </h1>
        <button type="button" class="btn-close" data-bs-dismiss="modal"
                aria-label="Close"></button>
      </div>
      <div class="modal-body">
        <p>
          The download has started. Check out the
          <a href="https://librepcb.org/docs/installation/" class="fw-bold">installation instructions</a>
          for further information.
        </p>
        <div class="alert alert-info">
          <b>Please consider making a donation</b> to support the
          development of LibrePCB. This will help us a lot to make
          LibrePCB even better. Thanks!
        </div>
      </div>
      <div class="modal-footer">
        <a class="btn btn-danger" role="button"
           href="{{< relref "donate/index.adoc" >}}">
          <i class="fa-solid fa-heart"></i>
          Donate
        </a>
        <a class="btn btn-warning" role="button"
           href="{{< relref "docs/index.md" >}}">
          <i class="fa-solid fa-book"></i>
          Documentation
        </a>
        <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary"
                data-bs-dismiss="modal">Not now</button>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
++++

Commit message:

Download page: Show known issue for Italian users
If the browser language is set to Italian, show a warning on the
download page to inform about the bug with Italian translation. Not
shown if the browser isn't set to Italian to avoid disrupting users
from the rest of the world. Implemented with JS (warning hidden if JS
is disabled).

See
https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/issues/1101#issuecomment-1429794854

content/download/index.adoc, after:

---
title: "Download"
type: download
icon: "fa-solid fa-download"
weight: 60
---

:version: {{< param latestVersion >}}
:releases-url: https://download.librepcb.org/releases/
:base-url: {releases-url}{version}
:windows-installer-url: {base-url}/librepcb-installer-{version}-windows-x86.exe
:windows-zip-url: {base-url}/librepcb-{version}-windows-x86.zip
:linux-installer-url: {base-url}/librepcb-installer-{version}-linux-x86_64.run
:linux-appimage-url: {base-url}/librepcb-{version}-linux-x86_64.AppImage
:linux-archive-url: {base-url}/librepcb-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
:mac-installer-url: {base-url}/librepcb-installer-{version}-mac-x86_64.dmg
:mac-bundle-url: {base-url}/librepcb-{version}-mac-x86_64.dmg
:source-url: {base-url}/librepcb-{version}-source.zip

[subs="attributes"]
++++
<p class="text-muted">Latest stable version: {version}</p>
++++

[TIP]
====
For help & more information, check out the
https://librepcb.org/docs/installation/[*installation instructions*].
====

// Important known issue for LibrePCB 0.1.7. Should be removed after the next
// release (including the JS function showKnownIssueIfItalian()).
[IMPORTANT.known-issue-italian-{version}.d-none]
====
**For Italian Users**:
LibrePCB 0.1.7 unfortunately contains a bug which could cause a crash if the
language is set to Italian. For the available workarounds, check out
https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/issues/1101#issuecomment-1429794854[this comment].
====

[.download-section.windows]
== {{< icon "fa-brands fa-windows" >}} Windows

_Requirements: Windows 7 or later._

[subs="attributes"]
++++
<div class="d-flex flex-column flex-lg-row my-3">
  <a class="btn btn-primary btn-download windows download-link me-2" role="button"
     href="{windows-installer-url}" >
    <i class="fa-solid fa-download"></i>
    Download Installer for Windows
  </a>
  <span class="align-self-center">
    <span class="d-none d-md-inline-block">Alternative:</span>
    <a href="{windows-zip-url}" class="download-link">Portable ZIP</a>
  </span>
</div>
++++

[.download-section.macos]
== {{< icon "fa-brands fa-apple" >}} MacOS

_Requirements: MacOS 11 Big Sur or later (64-bit)._

[subs="attributes"]
++++
<div class="d-flex flex-column flex-lg-row my-3">
  <a class="btn btn-primary btn-download macos download-link me-2" role="button"
     href="{mac-bundle-url}">
    <i class="fa-solid fa-download"></i>
    Download Bundle for MacOS
  </a>
  <span class="align-self-center">
    <span class="d-none d-md-inline-block">Alternative:</span>
    <a href="{mac-installer-url}" class="download-link">Installer</a>
  </span>
</div>
++++

[.download-section.linux]
== {{< icon "fa-brands fa-linux" >}} Linux

[NOTE]
====
LibrePCB is contained in several app stores / software centers, just search
for "LibrePCB" to find and install it. If it doesn't exist, use one of the
installation options below.
====

[subs="attributes"]
++++
<div class="d-flex flex-column flex-lg-row my-3">
  <a class="btn btn-primary btn-download linux download-link me-2" role="button"
     href="{linux-installer-url}">
    <i class="fa-solid fa-download"></i>
    Download Installer for Linux
  </a>
  <span class="align-self-center">
    <span class="d-none d-md-inline-block">Portable alternatives:</span>
    <a href="{linux-appimage-url}" class="download-link">AppImage</a>
    | <a href="{linux-archive-url}" class="download-link">Archive</a>
  </span>
</div>
++++

_Important:
https://librepcb.org/docs/installation/linux/[Set the executable flag]
before starting the installer or AppImage!_

App Stores::
  Install the
  https://snapcraft.io/librepcb[Snap Package from Snapcraft] or the
  https://flathub.org/apps/details/org.librepcb.LibrePCB[Flatpak from Flathub].

Arch Linux::
  Install https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/librepcb/[librepcb]
  (builds from source)
  or https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/librepcb-appimage/[librepcb-appimage] (downloads binary) from the AUR.

NixOS::
  Install the
  https://search.nixos.org/packages?from=0&size=50&sort=relevance&type=packages&query=librepcb[librepcb]
  package.

OpenPandora::
  Install https://repo.openpandora.org/?page=detail&app=librepcb[librepcb]
  from the OpenPandora Repository.

[.download-section.bsd]
== {{< icon "fa-brands fa-freebsd" >}} BSD

FreeBSD::
  Install the https://www.freshports.org/cad/librepcb/[librepcb] port.

== {{< icon "fa-solid fa-code" >}} Source

[subs="attributes"]
++++
<div class="d-flex flex-column flex-lg-row my-3">
  <a class="btn btn-secondary me-2" role="button" href="{source-url}" >
    <i class="fa-solid fa-download"></i>
    Download Source
  </a>
  <span class="align-self-center">
    <a href="https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB"><i class="fa-brands fa-github"></i> Repository</a>
    | <a href="https://librepcb.org/docs/installation/build-from-sources/">Instructions</a>
    | <a href="{{< relref "about/license/index.adoc" >}}">License</a>
  </span>
</div>
++++

== {{< icon "fa-solid fa-timeline" >}} Older Releases

All current and previous releases are available at {releases-url}.

// Modal dialog after download.
++++
<div class="modal fade" id="download-dialog" tabindex="-1"
     aria-labelledby="download-dialog-label" aria-hidden="true">
  <div class="modal-dialog modal-dialog-centered">
    <div class="modal-content">
      <div class="modal-header">
        <h1 class="modal-title fs-5" id="download-dialog-label">
          Thank you for choosing LibrePCB!
          <i class="fa-solid fa-rocket"></i>
        </h1>
        <button type="button" class="btn-close" data-bs-dismiss="modal"
                aria-label="Close"></button>
      </div>
      <div class="modal-body">
        <p>
          The download has started. Check out the
          <a href="https://librepcb.org/docs/installation/" class="fw-bold">installation instructions</a>
          for further information.
        </p>
        <div class="alert alert-info">
          <b>Please consider making a donation</b> to support the
          development of LibrePCB. This will help us a lot to make
          LibrePCB even better. Thanks!
        </div>
      </div>
      <div class="modal-footer">
        <a class="btn btn-danger" role="button"
           href="{{< relref "donate/index.adoc" >}}">
          <i class="fa-solid fa-heart"></i>
          Donate
        </a>
        <a class="btn btn-warning" role="button"
           href="{{< relref "docs/index.md" >}}">
          <i class="fa-solid fa-book"></i>
          Documentation
        </a>
        <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary"
                data-bs-dismiss="modal">Not now</button>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
++++
