content/donate/_index.md, before:

---
title: Donate to LibrePCB
type: donate
---

LibrePCB is an open source project – it's made by the community, for the
community. This means that everyone can use LibrePCB without paying for it.

But if you like LibrePCB, please consider supporting the ongoing development of
LibrePCB with a donation. The more donations are made, the more time we can put
into the development of new features to make LibrePCB even more powerful.


### Ordering PCBs at AISLER

You want to order a PCB designed with LibrePCB? In that case you can support
LibrePCB by ordering your PCBs at [AISLER](https://aisler.net/partners/librepcb)!
No separate payment for the donation is needed – just create a ZIP of your whole
LibrePCB project directory, upload it to
[aisler.net](https://aisler.net/partners/librepcb) and order PCBs as usual.
AISLER will then automatically make a donation to LibrePCB.


### Patreon

[Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/librepcb) is a platform to make recurring
donations to your favorite projects. It supports credit/debit cards and PayPal
for paying.

[![Become a Patron!](/img/become_a_patron_button.png)](https://www.patreon.com/bePatron?u=5128815)


### PayPal

As an alternative to Patreon, you can also
[donate with PayPal](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=8DQ5P4TS992Q4&source=url)
directly.

[![Donate with PayPal](/img/donate_paypal_button.gif)](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=8DQ5P4TS992Q4&source=url)


### Bitcoin

We also accept Bitcoins at following address:

![QR Code](/img/donate_bitcoin_qrcode.png)

[1FiXZxoXe3px1nNuNygRb1NwcYr6U8AvG8](bitcoin:1FiXZxoXe3px1nNuNygRb1NwcYr6U8AvG8)

## Thank You!

Commit message:

Mention merchandise shop at donation page

content/donate/_index.md, after:

---
title: Donate to LibrePCB
type: donate
---

LibrePCB is an open source project – it's made by the community, for the
community. This means that everyone can use LibrePCB without paying for it.

But if you like LibrePCB, please consider supporting the ongoing development of
LibrePCB with a donation. The more donations are made, the more time we can put
into the development of new features to make LibrePCB even more powerful.


### Ordering PCBs at AISLER

You want to order a PCB designed with LibrePCB? In that case you can support
LibrePCB by ordering your PCBs at [AISLER](https://aisler.net/partners/librepcb)!
No separate payment for the donation is needed – just create a ZIP of your whole
LibrePCB project directory, upload it to
[aisler.net](https://aisler.net/partners/librepcb) and order PCBs as usual.
AISLER will then automatically make a donation to LibrePCB.


### Merchandise Shop

Maybe you would like to have a LibrePCB T-Shirt, Hoodie or Mug? Then you should
take a look at our [merchandise shop](https://shop.spreadshirt.com/librepcb/)!
LibrePCB receives a commission on every order in this shop, so you can support
LibrePCB by purchasing cool products.


### Patreon

[Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/librepcb) is a platform to make recurring
donations to your favorite projects. It supports credit/debit cards and PayPal
for paying.

[![Become a Patron!](/img/become_a_patron_button.png)](https://www.patreon.com/bePatron?u=5128815)


### PayPal

As an alternative to Patreon, you can also
[donate with PayPal](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=8DQ5P4TS992Q4&source=url)
directly.

[![Donate with PayPal](/img/donate_paypal_button.gif)](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=8DQ5P4TS992Q4&source=url)


### Bitcoin

We also accept Bitcoins at following address:

![QR Code](/img/donate_bitcoin_qrcode.png)

[1FiXZxoXe3px1nNuNygRb1NwcYr6U8AvG8](bitcoin:1FiXZxoXe3px1nNuNygRb1NwcYr6U8AvG8)

## Thank You!
