content/contribute/index.adoc, before:

---
title: "Contribute"
icon: "fa-solid fa-users"
weight: 90
---

LibrePCB is a community project and relies on contributions. See below for
a list of ways to contribute. If you have any questions or need help, please
don't hesitate to link:{{< relref "help/help/index.adoc" >}}[contact us].

== icon:globe[] Translations

An easy but still very valuable way to contribute is to help translating
LibrePCB from English into other languages. Just join
https://www.transifex.com/librepcb/librepcb-application/[our project on Transifex]
and start translating fully autonomous. Your translations will then
automatically be part of the next LibrePCB release.

== icon:book[] Documentation

Writing good documentation takes a lot of time. Therefore any support is
very helpful. For writing documentation, you need basic skills with Git,
GitHub and AsciiDoc (no worries -- everybody can learn these things). To
edit the documentation, open pull requests on the
https://github.com/LibrePCB/librepcb-doc[librepcb-doc] repository.
For instructions, see
https://github.com/LibrePCB/librepcb-doc/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md[`CONTRIBUTING.md`].

== icon:message[] Feedback

Your point of view as a (potential) LibrePCB user is very valuable for the
developers. Please share your opinion about LibrePCB with us by attending
to the https://show.forms.app/librepcb/feedback[user feedback survey].

Or did you find a bug? Is something unclear with the user interface or the
documentation? Do you have an improvement idea? Either
https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/issues[open an issue] or
https://librepcb.discourse.group/[start a discussion thread] to let us know!

== icon:share-nodes[] Share

Just spread the word about LibrePCB!

* Put the _Made with LibrePCB_ logo on your PCB (available in the base library).
* Order your PCBs with
  link:{{< relref "features/fabrication-service/index.adoc" >}}[LibrePCB Fab]
  to let manufacturers see our growing community.
* Publish your projects online and mention LibrePCB (forums, social
  networks, ...).
* Recommend LibrePCB to your collegues & friends.

== icon:money-bill[] Financially

A financial contribution is a very simple yet effective way to support LibrePCB
since it allows the developers to spend more time on it. Please see
link:{{< relref "donate/index.adoc" >}}[here] for donation options.

== icon:database[] Libraries

Generally, adding parts to our official libraries would be a perfect
way to contribute as well. But we believe it's very important to keep
the quality, consistency and correctness of the libraries as high as
possible. Therefore we want to apply strict guidelines and perform
serious reviews.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Unfortunately at this time we don't have enough resources to write detailed
guidelines and to perform serious reviews (it's [.underline]#very# time
consuming). Therefore it's difficult to contribute this way. Feel free to
open pull requests https://github.com/LibrePCB-Libraries/[on our libraries]
anyway, but please don't be afraid if it takes a long time to get any feedback.

We are very sorry for this issue and try to find a solution which allows to
ensure high-quality libraries while accepting contributions with low effort
and low frustration.
====

== icon:code[] Code

Contributing rather small fixes to our code base is possible as well, check out
https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md[`CONTRIBUTING.md`]
in the repository for details.

However, for any larger change please first talk to the lead developer.
Working on such a large code base is difficult since many different aspects
need to be considered (consistent UI concepts, translations, performance,
memory management, undo stack, ...). The changes also need to follow the
general strategy of the project. So please don't waste your time with
implementing a feature which might never be merged -- ask the lead
developer first about his opinion and recommendations.

[TIP]
====
Please consider making a
link:{{< relref "donate/index.adoc" >}}[financial contribution] instead.
In our experience this is much more effective since it allows a few
developers to work a long time (and thus more efficiently) on the project
rather than many developers working a short time on it (which is very
inefficient).
====

Commit message:

Contributing: Mention 'help wanted' issues

content/contribute/index.adoc, after:

---
title: "Contribute"
icon: "fa-solid fa-users"
weight: 90
---

LibrePCB is a community project and relies on contributions. See below for
a list of ways to contribute. If you have any questions or need help, please
don't hesitate to link:{{< relref "help/help/index.adoc" >}}[contact us].

== icon:globe[] Translations

An easy but still very valuable way to contribute is to help translating
LibrePCB from English into other languages. Just join
https://www.transifex.com/librepcb/librepcb-application/[our project on Transifex]
and start translating fully autonomous. Your translations will then
automatically be part of the next LibrePCB release.

== icon:book[] Documentation

Writing good documentation takes a lot of time. Therefore any support is
very helpful. For writing documentation, you need basic skills with Git,
GitHub and AsciiDoc (no worries -- everybody can learn these things). To
edit the documentation, open pull requests on the
https://github.com/LibrePCB/librepcb-doc[librepcb-doc] repository.
For instructions, see
https://github.com/LibrePCB/librepcb-doc/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md[`CONTRIBUTING.md`].

== icon:message[] Feedback

Your point of view as a (potential) LibrePCB user is very valuable for the
developers. Please share your opinion about LibrePCB with us by attending
to the https://show.forms.app/librepcb/feedback[user feedback survey].

Or did you find a bug? Is something unclear with the user interface or the
documentation? Do you have an improvement idea? Either
https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/issues[open an issue] or
https://librepcb.discourse.group/[start a discussion thread] to let us know!

== icon:share-nodes[] Share

Just spread the word about LibrePCB!

* Put the _Made with LibrePCB_ logo on your PCB (available in the base library).
* Order your PCBs with
  link:{{< relref "features/fabrication-service/index.adoc" >}}[LibrePCB Fab]
  to let manufacturers see our growing community.
* Publish your projects online and mention LibrePCB (forums, social
  networks, ...).
* Recommend LibrePCB to your collegues & friends.

== icon:money-bill[] Financially

A financial contribution is a very simple yet effective way to support LibrePCB
since it allows the developers to spend more time on it. Please see
link:{{< relref "donate/index.adoc" >}}[here] for donation options.

== icon:database[] Libraries

Generally, adding parts to our official libraries would be a perfect
way to contribute as well. But we believe it's very important to keep
the quality, consistency and correctness of the libraries as high as
possible. Therefore we want to apply strict guidelines and perform
serious reviews.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Unfortunately at this time we don't have enough resources to write detailed
guidelines and to perform serious reviews (it's [.underline]#very# time
consuming). Therefore it's difficult to contribute this way. Feel free to
open pull requests https://github.com/LibrePCB-Libraries/[on our libraries]
anyway, but please don't be afraid if it takes a long time to get any feedback.

We are very sorry for this issue and try to find a solution which allows to
ensure high-quality libraries while accepting contributions with low effort
and low frustration.
====

== icon:code[] Code

Contributing to our code base is possible as well, check out
https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md[`CONTRIBUTING.md`]
in the repository for details. Especially check out issues labeled with
https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/labels/help%20wanted[_help wanted_] since
those are most valuable to us.

However, for any larger change please first talk to the lead developer.
Working on such a large code base is difficult since many different aspects
need to be considered (consistent UI concepts, translations, performance,
memory management, undo stack, ...). The changes also need to follow the
general strategy of the project. So please don't waste your time with
implementing a feature which might never be merged -- ask the lead
developer first about his opinion and recommendations.

[TIP]
====
Please consider making a
link:{{< relref "donate/index.adoc" >}}[financial contribution] instead.
In our experience this is much more effective since it allows a few
developers to work a long time (and thus more efficiently) on the project
rather than many developers working a short time on it (which is very
inefficient).
====
