content/sponsors/index.adoc, before:

---
title: "Sponsors"
icon: "fa-solid fa-hand-holding-heart"
weight: 70
---

Maintaining LibrePCB wouldn't be possible without sponsorings.
Many thanks to our sponsors for supporting the LibrePCB project:

[cols="^.^1,.^4"]
|===
| image:/img/nlnet.png[link="https://nlnet.nl/project/LibrePCB/"]

  image:/img/ngi0-entrust.svg[link="https://nlnet.nl/project/LibrePCB/"]
| This project is funded through the https://nlnet.nl/entrust/[NGI0 Entrust]
  Fund, a fund established by https://nlnet.nl[NLnet] with financial support
  from the European Commission's https://ngi.eu[Next Generation Internet]
  programme, under the aegis of DG Communications Networks, Content and
  Technology under grant agreement No 101069594.

| image:/img/sponsor-aisler.png[link="https://aisler.net"]
| https://aisler.net[AISLER] is a PCB manufacturing service from the
  Netherlands which makes PCB ordering easier than ever before. They operate
  our fabrication service and contribute financially.

| image:/img/sponsor-pcbway.png[link="https://www.pcbway.com"]
| https://www.pcbway.com[PCBWay] is a large, worldwide well-known PCB
  manufacturing company from China which provides advanced PCB technologies.
  They operate our fabrication service and contribute financially.

| image:/img/sponsor-pcbgogo.png[link="https://www.pcbgogo.com/promo/librepcb"]
| https://www.pcbgogo.com/promo/librepcb[PCBgogo] is a quick-turn prototype
  PCB manufacturing and assembly service from China.
  They offer a
  https://www.pcbgogo.com/promo/librepcb01[$25 PCB for just $1 with free shipping]
  on your first order. PCBgogo supports the LibrePCB project financially.

| image:/img/sponsor-nextpcb.png[link="https://www.nextpcb.com"]
| https://www.nextpcb.com[HQ NextPCB] specializes in reliable multilayer
  PCB manufacture and assembly. They also provide the parts sourcing service
  https://www.hqonline.com/[HQ Online] and the free DFM analysis tool
  https://www.nextpcb.com/free-online-gerber-viewer.html[HQDFM].
  HQ{nbsp}NextPCB supports the LibrePCB project financially.

| image:/img/sponsor-partstack.svg[link="https://partstack.com/"]
| https://partstack.com/[Partstack] is an electronic part search engine from
  California, providing a comprehensive catalog of parts including supplier
  stock availability, prices, datasheets and more. They support the LibrePCB
  project financially.

| image:/img/sponsor-winsource.png[link="https://www.win-source.net/"]
| https://www.win-source.net/[WIN SOURCE] is an electronic components
  distributor from China. In addition to regular parts, they also have a
  large catalog of EOL and obsolete parts in stock. WIN SOURCE supports the
  LibrePCB project financially.

| icon:users[2x]
| And many more commercial or individual sponsors contribute financially
  through https://www.patreon.com/librepcb[Patreon],
  https://github.com/sponsors/ubruhin[GitHub Sponsors], PayPal or other ways!
|===


== icon:gears[] In-Kind Sponsors

The LibrePCB project thankfully relies on the following sponsored services
to operate:

[cols="^.^1,.^4"]
|===
| image:/img/sponsor-cloudscale.png[link="https://cloudscale.ch"]
| https://cloudscale.ch[cloudscale.ch] is a highly flexible, easy-to-use
  cloud server provider from Switzerland. They sponsor the virtual servers
  to run all LibrePCB web services.

| image:/img/transifex.png[link="https://www.transifex.com/librepcb/"]
| https://www.transifex.com/librepcb/[Transifex] sponsors the translation
  service thanks to their
  https://help.transifex.com/en/articles/6236788-open-source-projects[open-source program].
|===

// Workaround for too small vertical space.
{empty}

== icon:hand-point-right[] Your Sponsorship

Are you interested in a sponsorship? Check out our
link:{{< relref "donate/index.adoc" >}}[donation options] and
link:{{< relref "about/contact/index.adoc" >}}[contact us].

Commit message:

Add Bittele Electronics to sponsors

content/sponsors/index.adoc, after:

---
title: "Sponsors"
icon: "fa-solid fa-hand-holding-heart"
weight: 70
---

Maintaining LibrePCB wouldn't be possible without sponsorings.
Many thanks to our sponsors for supporting the LibrePCB project:

[cols="^.^1,.^4"]
|===
| image:/img/nlnet.png[link="https://nlnet.nl/project/LibrePCB/"]

  image:/img/ngi0-entrust.svg[link="https://nlnet.nl/project/LibrePCB/"]
| This project is funded through the https://nlnet.nl/entrust/[NGI0 Entrust]
  Fund, a fund established by https://nlnet.nl[NLnet] with financial support
  from the European Commission's https://ngi.eu[Next Generation Internet]
  programme, under the aegis of DG Communications Networks, Content and
  Technology under grant agreement No 101069594.

| image:/img/sponsor-aisler.png[link="https://aisler.net"]
| https://aisler.net[AISLER] is a PCB manufacturing service from the
  Netherlands which makes PCB ordering easier than ever before. They operate
  our fabrication service and contribute financially.

| image:/img/sponsor-pcbway.png[link="https://www.pcbway.com"]
| https://www.pcbway.com[PCBWay] is a large, worldwide well-known PCB
  manufacturing company from China which provides advanced PCB technologies.
  They operate our fabrication service and contribute financially.

| image:/img/sponsor-pcbgogo.png[link="https://www.pcbgogo.com/promo/librepcb"]
| https://www.pcbgogo.com/promo/librepcb[PCBgogo] is a quick-turn prototype
  PCB manufacturing and assembly service from China.
  They offer a
  https://www.pcbgogo.com/promo/librepcb01[$25 PCB for just $1 with free shipping]
  on your first order. PCBgogo supports the LibrePCB project financially.

| image:/img/sponsor-nextpcb.png[link="https://www.nextpcb.com"]
| https://www.nextpcb.com[HQ NextPCB] specializes in reliable multilayer
  PCB manufacture and assembly. They also provide the parts sourcing service
  https://www.hqonline.com/[HQ Online] and the free DFM analysis tool
  https://www.nextpcb.com/free-online-gerber-viewer.html[HQDFM].
  HQ{nbsp}NextPCB supports the LibrePCB project financially.

| image:/img/sponsor-bittele.png[link="https://www.7pcb.com/"]
| https://www.7pcb.com/[Bittele Electronics] is a turn-key PCB assembly company
  from Canada, providing prototype and low-to-mid volume PCB fabrication and
  assembly services. Bittele Electronics supports the LibrePCB project
  financially.

| image:/img/sponsor-partstack.svg[link="https://partstack.com/"]
| https://partstack.com/[Partstack] is an electronic part search engine from
  California, providing a comprehensive catalog of parts including supplier
  stock availability, prices, datasheets and more. They support the LibrePCB
  project financially.

| image:/img/sponsor-winsource.png[link="https://www.win-source.net/"]
| https://www.win-source.net/[WIN SOURCE] is an electronic components
  distributor from China. In addition to regular parts, they also have a
  large catalog of EOL and obsolete parts in stock. WIN SOURCE supports the
  LibrePCB project financially.

| icon:users[2x]
| And many more commercial or individual sponsors contribute financially
  through https://www.patreon.com/librepcb[Patreon],
  https://github.com/sponsors/ubruhin[GitHub Sponsors], PayPal or other ways!
|===


== icon:gears[] In-Kind Sponsors

The LibrePCB project thankfully relies on the following sponsored services
to operate:

[cols="^.^1,.^4"]
|===
| image:/img/sponsor-cloudscale.png[link="https://cloudscale.ch"]
| https://cloudscale.ch[cloudscale.ch] is a highly flexible, easy-to-use
  cloud server provider from Switzerland. They sponsor the virtual servers
  to run all LibrePCB web services.

| image:/img/transifex.png[link="https://www.transifex.com/librepcb/"]
| https://www.transifex.com/librepcb/[Transifex] sponsors the translation
  service thanks to their
  https://help.transifex.com/en/articles/6236788-open-source-projects[open-source program].
|===

// Workaround for too small vertical space.
{empty}

== icon:hand-point-right[] Your Sponsorship

Are you interested in a sponsorship? Check out our
link:{{< relref "donate/index.adoc" >}}[donation options] and
link:{{< relref "about/contact/index.adoc" >}}[contact us].
