content/help/help/index.adoc, before:

---
title: "Get Help"
icon: "fa-solid fa-circle-question"
weight: 10
url: /help
aliases: /discuss
---

== icon:message[] Forum

The best way for getting help or discussing improvement ideas is our
https://librepcb.discourse.group/[*discussion forum*]. Sign up and join the
conversation!

++++
<p class="text-center">
  <a class="btn btn-lg btn-dark" role="button"
     href="https://librepcb.discourse.group/">
    <i class="fa-brands fa-discourse"></i>
    LibrePCB Community
  </a>
</p>
++++

== icon:bug[] Issue Tracker

To report issues or for concrete feature requests,
https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/issues[open an issue] in our issue
tracker. If you don't have a GitHub account, feel free to post your message
in the https://librepcb.discourse.group/[discussion forum] instead.

== icon:comments[] Chat

We also have a development channel on IRC and a group on Telegram. The two
chats are bridged, so you can join any one of them to see all conversations.

* https://telegram.me/LibrePCB_dev[LibrePCB_dev on Telegram]
* https://web.libera.chat?channels=#librepcb[#librepcb on Libera.Chat]

Note that this chat is mainly for discussing the _development_ of LibrePCB.
To get help, the https://librepcb.discourse.group/[forum] is preferred.

== icon:money-bill[] Paid Support

If you're interested in paid support or feature development service, please
link:{{< relref "about/contact/index.adoc" >}}[contact us].


== icon:envelope[] Contact

See link:{{< relref "about/contact/index.adoc" >}}[contact section].

Commit message:

Replace IRC dev channel by Matrix channel

content/help/help/index.adoc, after:

---
title: "Get Help"
icon: "fa-solid fa-circle-question"
weight: 10
url: /help
aliases: /discuss
---

== icon:message[] Forum

The best way for getting help or discussing improvement ideas is our
https://librepcb.discourse.group/[*discussion forum*]. Sign up and join the
conversation!

++++
<p class="text-center">
  <a class="btn btn-lg btn-dark" role="button"
     href="https://librepcb.discourse.group/">
    <i class="fa-brands fa-discourse"></i>
    LibrePCB Community
  </a>
</p>
++++

== icon:bug[] Issue Tracker

To report issues or for concrete feature requests,
https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/issues[open an issue] in our issue
tracker. If you don't have a GitHub account, feel free to post your message
in the https://librepcb.discourse.group/[discussion forum] instead.

== icon:comments[] Development Chat

We also have a development group on Telegram and a channel on Matrix. The two
chats are bridged, so you can join any one of them to see all conversations.

* https://telegram.me/LibrePCB_dev[LibrePCB_dev on Telegram]
* https://matrix.to/#/#librepcb-dev:matrix.coredump.ch[#librepcb-dev:matrix.coredump.ch on Matrix]

Note that this chat is mainly for discussing the _development_ of LibrePCB.
To get help, please use the https://librepcb.discourse.group/[forum] instead.

== icon:money-bill[] Paid Support

If you're interested in paid support or feature development service, please
link:{{< relref "about/contact/index.adoc" >}}[contact us].


== icon:envelope[] Contact

See link:{{< relref "about/contact/index.adoc" >}}[contact section].
