content/help/faq/index.adoc, before:

---
title: "Frequently Asked Questions"
linkTitle: "FAQ"
icon: "fa-solid fa-circle-question"
showToc: true
weight: 20
url: /faq
aliases: /compare
---

[#why-should-i-use-librepcb]
=== Why should I use LibrePCB instead of _XYZ_?

* It's very easy to get started with; there's no need to spend lots of time learning.
* Working with LibrePCB means more fun and less trouble thanks to its
  link:{{< relref "features/library-concept/index.adoc" >}}[advanced library concept].
* Installing and updating libraries is much simpler and faster thanks to the
  link:{{< relref "features/library-management/index.adoc" >}}[built-in library management].
* Ordering PCBs is way simpler, faster and less error-prone thanks to the
  link:{{< relref "features/fabrication-service/index.adoc" >}}[integrated fabrication service].
* Version control of libraries and projects works much better thanks to its
  link:{{< relref "features/file-format/index.adoc" >}}[well-designed file format].
* ...and many more things. Check out the link:../features/[feature pages]
  for more details.

[#why-another-eda-tool]
=== Why another EDA tool? Why not contributing to tool _XYZ_?

Each of the existing open-source EDA tools has a different target audience,
a different focus, and different opinions about how things should be done.
It makes no sense for LibrePCB developers to work on another tool (e.g. KiCad)
just to be able to implement the small subset of our ideas they agree on.
It's almost impossible (and senseless) to fundamentally change the mindset
of other EDA tool developers.

In the end, it's good for users to have multiple _different_ EDA tools to
choose from. Of course we don't develop multiple _identical_ tools.

[#why-a-new-file-format]
=== Why introducing a new, non-standardized file format?

From time to time, people ask why every EDA package invented its own file
format instead of developing a standardized, open file format to allow
data exchange between different EDA packages.

Although this sounds like a great idea, in practice it makes no sense,
unfortunately. The data structure of a PCB project obviously has to
reflect the feature set and concepts of the tool itself; for example, if
the tool uses UUIDs for referencing objects, the file format has to
reflect this. If we introduced a file format to be used by multiple
EDA packages, it would mean that the general concepts of these packages
must be identical as well (otherwise they wouldn't be compatible with the
file format). But it makes no sense to develop multiple _identical_ EDA
packages. The same applies to LibrePCB: we want to provide you with an EDA
tool that is _different_ (from our point of view: _better_) than other
tools, and that's only possible with a different file format.

[#is-it-stable]
=== The version number is very low, is it already usable?

Yes it is! It is working very well and can be used productively to create
PCBs. However, just don't expect advanced features yet (e.g. hierarchical sheets).
Features like that will be implemented in future releases.

Check out
https://librepcb.discourse.group/t/projects-madewithlibrepcb/99[#madewithlibrepcb]
to see pictures of some PCBs made with LibrePCB.

[#where-is-library-element]
=== I can't find _XYZ_ in the libraries, where is it?

Providing high-quality libraries requires a huge amount of time until they
are somewhat "complete" (that's impossible anyway). If you didn't find what
you're looking for, it probably doesn't exist yet.

But there's good news: With LibrePCB it's very easy to create your own
library elements! Just
https://librepcb.org/docs/quickstart/create-local-library/[create a local library] and
https://librepcb.org/docs/quickstart/create-library-elements/[add the elements you need].

In addition, you could ask in https://librepcb.discourse.group/[our forum]
if other users already created the library elements you need.

[#can-i-order-only-through-librepcb-fab]
=== Can I order the PCB only through LibrePCB Fab?

No! Of course you can always export traditional production data (i.e. Gerber
files) and order wherever you want. Although LibrePCB Fab makes life easier,
we understand that you might not be happy with the provided manufacturers or
you like to have more control over the ordering process (e.g. reviewing Gerber
files).

In our opinion, LibrePCB Fab is a win-win-win situation because users profit
from a simple and quick order process, the LibrePCB project profits from an
additional income to fund the development, and manufacturers profit from
gaining more customers and publicity. Thus it is a perfect way to support
the LibrePCB project.

If you still don't like it for some reason, just don't use it -- we're
totally fine with that and we're committed to keep the traditional production
data export intact since we strongly belive in freedom. Choosing a PCB
manufacturer must always be up to you.

[#who-operates-librepcb]
=== Who operates LibrePCB? Is there a company behind it?

LibrePCB is an open-source project founded and coordinated by
https://github.com/ubruhin[@ubruhin]. Although he's the main developer, the
project receives lots of contributions from the community -- for example
translations, documentation and code contributions. There is no company
involved in operating the project (see also
<<how-is-librepcb-related-to-sponsors>>), and the project is not following
any commercial interests.

[#how-is-librepcb-related-to-sponsors]
=== How is LibrePCB related to its sponsors?

LibrePCB has several commercial sponsors which support the project in different
ways. Some are donating money, some are providing a particular service we need
to operate the project (e.g. webhosting). In return, we list them on our
website as a simple and honest form of publicity. We think this is a very fair
deal since LibrePCB users profit from getting a continuously developed EDA
suite free of charge(!) without any downsides at all (no advertisement in the
application etc.).

Note that decision-making is not impacted by sponsors. We only decide about
features from the user's point of view, not by commercial interests of
sponsors. Also we take privacy very serious -- even LibrePCB Fab does not
forward any data to our manufacturing partners unless you explicitly
choose to forward the project to them.

[#what-is-the-donated-or-sponsored-money-used-for]
=== What is the donated money used for?

*Short answer:* For full-time development and many other things.

*Long answer:* To operate the LibrePCB project, various things directly cost
money. For example:

Virtual server::
  We need a virtual server for hosting the website, library manager API,
  fabrication service, various automation tools etc. Actually our current
  server setup would cost us at least 500 USD every year, but thanks to our
  sponsor luckily we get it for free so the donated money is not used for that.

Domains & mailserver::
  It's not much money, but we have to pay our Internet domain names. Also
  the mailserver is rented because hosting it by ourselves on the virtual
  server is everything else than trivial.

Hardware::
  From time to time, some hardware might be needed. For example to test
  LibrePCB on macOS, we bought a Mac Mini on the second-hand market.

Conferences::
  When presenting LibrePCB at conferences (e.g. FOSDEM), we need to buy
  flight tickets, hotels etc. to attend.

However, operating a large and complex project like LibrePCB mainly takes a
lot of time. At first glance you might only see the effort spent for
development of the application. But in total, there are many different
tasks which need to be done:

Application development::
  The most obvious and most time consuming part is to actually develop
  the application (new features, bugfixes etc.).

Website & webservice development::
  Developing & maintaining the website, the API webservice, the
  fabrication service, documentation builder, translations synchronizing
  script, ...

Server administration::
  The virtual server is entirely set up and maintained by ourselves so we
  regularly need to keep it up to date, fix problems, monitor it etc.

Support::
  Reproducing bug reports, answering user questions, picking up feature
  requests, responding to emails from people not reading the "there's no free
  email support" statement, ...

Documentation::
  Writing good documentation including expressive screenshots and creating
  helpful video tutorials is not only quite difficult but also very very
  time consuming.

Sponsorings coordination::
  Both financial and in-kind sponsorings are a manual task, often requiring
  lots of communication between the involved parties (many emails, sometimes
  videocalls).

This list is by far not complete, but hopefully you now have a rough idea
about the involved effort to operate the LibrePCB project and understand that
all this cannot be done anymore by a volunteer in free time. Therefore the
project founder and main developer https://github.com/ubruhin[@ubruhin] started
to work full time on LibrePCB and thus heavily relies on donations and
sponsorings to pay the rent, food etc. Any donated money thus goes to him
and he'll spend it for the mentioned usage.

Commit message:

FAQ: Add item for "No device or package found" message

content/help/faq/index.adoc, after:

---
title: "Frequently Asked Questions"
linkTitle: "FAQ"
icon: "fa-solid fa-circle-question"
showToc: true
weight: 20
url: /faq
aliases: /compare
---

[#why-should-i-use-librepcb]
=== Why should I use LibrePCB instead of _XYZ_?

* It's very easy to get started with; there's no need to spend lots of time learning.
* Working with LibrePCB means more fun and less trouble thanks to its
  link:{{< relref "features/library-concept/index.adoc" >}}[advanced library concept].
* Installing and updating libraries is much simpler and faster thanks to the
  link:{{< relref "features/library-management/index.adoc" >}}[built-in library management].
* Ordering PCBs is way simpler, faster and less error-prone thanks to the
  link:{{< relref "features/fabrication-service/index.adoc" >}}[integrated fabrication service].
* Version control of libraries and projects works much better thanks to its
  link:{{< relref "features/file-format/index.adoc" >}}[well-designed file format].
* ...and many more things. Check out the link:../features/[feature pages]
  for more details.

[#why-another-eda-tool]
=== Why another EDA tool? Why not contributing to tool _XYZ_?

Each of the existing open-source EDA tools has a different target audience,
a different focus, and different opinions about how things should be done.
It makes no sense for LibrePCB developers to work on another tool (e.g. KiCad)
just to be able to implement the small subset of our ideas they agree on.
It's almost impossible (and senseless) to fundamentally change the mindset
of other EDA tool developers.

In the end, it's good for users to have multiple _different_ EDA tools to
choose from. Of course we don't develop multiple _identical_ tools.

[#why-a-new-file-format]
=== Why introducing a new, non-standardized file format?

From time to time, people ask why every EDA package invented its own file
format instead of developing a standardized, open file format to allow
data exchange between different EDA packages.

Although this sounds like a great idea, in practice it makes no sense,
unfortunately. The data structure of a PCB project obviously has to
reflect the feature set and concepts of the tool itself; for example, if
the tool uses UUIDs for referencing objects, the file format has to
reflect this. If we introduced a file format to be used by multiple
EDA packages, it would mean that the general concepts of these packages
must be identical as well (otherwise they wouldn't be compatible with the
file format). But it makes no sense to develop multiple _identical_ EDA
packages. The same applies to LibrePCB: we want to provide you with an EDA
tool that is _different_ (from our point of view: _better_) than other
tools, and that's only possible with a different file format.

[#is-it-stable]
=== The version number is very low, is it already usable?

Yes it is! It is working very well and can be used productively to create
PCBs. However, just don't expect advanced features yet (e.g. hierarchical sheets).
Features like that will be implemented in future releases.

Check out
https://librepcb.discourse.group/t/projects-madewithlibrepcb/99[#madewithlibrepcb]
to see pictures of some PCBs made with LibrePCB.

[#where-is-library-element]
=== I can't find _XYZ_ in the libraries, where is it?

Providing high-quality libraries requires a huge amount of time until they
are somewhat "complete" (that's impossible anyway). So it can happen that
you don't find a particular part in the schematic editor, or the board editor
shows the message _"No device or package for the selected component found in
the library!"_.

That's not a problem of the software. It only means the part is not provided
by the installed libraries. So first make sure you have
https://librepcb.org/docs/quickstart/install-remote-libraries/[installed all libraries]
which _might_ contain the desired part (if unsure, just install all of them).
If it is still not available, it probably doesn't exist yet in any library.

But there's good news: With LibrePCB it's very easy to create your own
library elements! Just
https://librepcb.org/docs/quickstart/create-local-library/[create a local library] and
https://librepcb.org/docs/quickstart/create-library-elements/[add the elements you need].

In addition, you could ask in https://librepcb.discourse.group/[our forum]
if other users already created the library elements you need.

[#error-no-dev-or-pkg-found]
=== I get the error "No device or package found [...]"!

See <<where-is-library-element>>.

[#can-i-order-only-through-librepcb-fab]
=== Can I order the PCB only through LibrePCB Fab?

No! Of course you can always export traditional production data (i.e. Gerber
files) and order wherever you want. Although LibrePCB Fab makes life easier,
we understand that you might not be happy with the provided manufacturers or
you like to have more control over the ordering process (e.g. reviewing Gerber
files).

In our opinion, LibrePCB Fab is a win-win-win situation because users profit
from a simple and quick order process, the LibrePCB project profits from an
additional income to fund the development, and manufacturers profit from
gaining more customers and publicity. Thus it is a perfect way to support
the LibrePCB project.

If you still don't like it for some reason, just don't use it -- we're
totally fine with that and we're committed to keep the traditional production
data export intact since we strongly belive in freedom. Choosing a PCB
manufacturer must always be up to you.

[#who-operates-librepcb]
=== Who operates LibrePCB? Is there a company behind it?

LibrePCB is an open-source project founded and coordinated by
https://github.com/ubruhin[@ubruhin]. Although he's the main developer, the
project receives lots of contributions from the community -- for example
translations, documentation and code contributions. There is no company
involved in operating the project (see also
<<how-is-librepcb-related-to-sponsors>>), and the project is not following
any commercial interests.

[#how-is-librepcb-related-to-sponsors]
=== How is LibrePCB related to its sponsors?

LibrePCB has several commercial sponsors which support the project in different
ways. Some are donating money, some are providing a particular service we need
to operate the project (e.g. webhosting). In return, we list them on our
website as a simple and honest form of publicity. We think this is a very fair
deal since LibrePCB users profit from getting a continuously developed EDA
suite free of charge(!) without any downsides at all (no advertisement in the
application etc.).

Note that decision-making is not impacted by sponsors. We only decide about
features from the user's point of view, not by commercial interests of
sponsors. Also we take privacy very serious -- even LibrePCB Fab does not
forward any data to our manufacturing partners unless you explicitly
choose to forward the project to them.

[#what-is-the-donated-or-sponsored-money-used-for]
=== What is the donated money used for?

*Short answer:* For full-time development and many other things.

*Long answer:* To operate the LibrePCB project, various things directly cost
money. For example:

Virtual server::
  We need a virtual server for hosting the website, library manager API,
  fabrication service, various automation tools etc. Actually our current
  server setup would cost us at least 500 USD every year, but thanks to our
  sponsor luckily we get it for free so the donated money is not used for that.

Domains & mailserver::
  It's not much money, but we have to pay our Internet domain names. Also
  the mailserver is rented because hosting it by ourselves on the virtual
  server is everything else than trivial.

Hardware::
  From time to time, some hardware might be needed. For example to test
  LibrePCB on macOS, we bought a Mac Mini on the second-hand market.

Conferences::
  When presenting LibrePCB at conferences (e.g. FOSDEM), we need to buy
  flight tickets, hotels etc. to attend.

However, operating a large and complex project like LibrePCB mainly takes a
lot of time. At first glance you might only see the effort spent for
development of the application. But in total, there are many different
tasks which need to be done:

Application development::
  The most obvious and most time consuming part is to actually develop
  the application (new features, bugfixes etc.).

Website & webservice development::
  Developing & maintaining the website, the API webservice, the
  fabrication service, documentation builder, translations synchronizing
  script, ...

Server administration::
  The virtual server is entirely set up and maintained by ourselves so we
  regularly need to keep it up to date, fix problems, monitor it etc.

Support::
  Reproducing bug reports, answering user questions, picking up feature
  requests, responding to emails from people not reading the "there's no free
  email support" statement, ...

Documentation::
  Writing good documentation including expressive screenshots and creating
  helpful video tutorials is not only quite difficult but also very very
  time consuming.

Sponsorings coordination::
  Both financial and in-kind sponsorings are a manual task, often requiring
  lots of communication between the involved parties (many emails, sometimes
  videocalls).

This list is by far not complete, but hopefully you now have a rough idea
about the involved effort to operate the LibrePCB project and understand that
all this cannot be done anymore by a volunteer in free time. Therefore the
project founder and main developer https://github.com/ubruhin[@ubruhin] started
to work full time on LibrePCB and thus heavily relies on donations and
sponsorings to pay the rent, food etc. Any donated money thus goes to him
and he'll spend it for the mentioned usage.
