content/sponsors/tiers/index.adoc, before:

---
title: "Become a LibrePCB Sponsor"
linkTitle: "Become a Sponsor"
weight: 50
url: /become-a-sponsor
---

To be able to provide LibrePCB for free to the electronics community, we rely
on donations. It is our vision that professional PCB design software must
be available for everyone, from hobbyists to professionals.

A LibrePCB sponsorship is a special way of donation which allows the sponsor
to gain visibility and recognition in the electronics community. Let the
people know you share our vision of a free, open & modern PCB design ecosystem!

Or if LibrePCB helps your business in making profit, please consider investing
a fraction of your profit into the development and sustainability of the
LibrePCB project as a fair return.

== Sponsorship Tiers

We offer four predefined levels of sponsorships, with different benefits:

[%header,cols="36,16,16,16,16"]
|===
|
^|{set:cellbgcolor:#CD7F32A0} Bronze
^|{set:cellbgcolor:#A0A0A0A0} Silver
^|{set:cellbgcolor:#E0B020a0} Gold
^|{set:cellbgcolor:#C0C0FFA0} Platinum

|{set:cellbgcolor:-} Annual Donation (USD)
^| **>= $1,000**
^| **>= $2,500**
^| **>= $5,000**
^| **>= $10,000**

|{set:cellbgcolor:-} Your Logo on Sponsors Page^1^
^.^|{set:cellbgcolor:#00FF0020} ✓ [.sponsor-tier-cell-text]#(small, row 4)#
^.^| ✓ [.sponsor-tier-cell-text]#(small, row 3)#
^.^| ✓ [.sponsor-tier-cell-text]#(medium, row 2)#
^.^| ✓ [.sponsor-tier-cell-text]#(large, row 1)#

|{set:cellbgcolor:-} Text on Sponsors Page^2^
^.^|{set:cellbgcolor:#00FF0020} ✓ [.sponsor-tier-cell-text]#(short)#
^.^| ✓ [.sponsor-tier-cell-text]#(short)#
^.^| ✓ [.sponsor-tier-cell-text]#(long)#
^.^| ✓ [.sponsor-tier-cell-text]#(long)#

|{set:cellbgcolor:-} Mention at Conferences^3^
^.^|{set:cellbgcolor:#00FF0020} ✓
^.^| ✓
^.^| ✓
^.^| ✓

|{set:cellbgcolor:-} Your Logo on Home Page^4^
^.^|{set:cellbgcolor:#FFFF0020} [.sponsor-tier-cell-text]#(not guaranteed)#
^.^|{set:cellbgcolor:#00FF0020} ✓
^.^| ✓
^.^| ✓

|{set:cellbgcolor:-} Announcement in Social Media^5^
^.^|
^.^|{set:cellbgcolor:#00FF0020} ✓
^.^| ✓
^.^| ✓

|{set:cellbgcolor:-} Acknowledge in Release Notes^6^
^.^|
^.^|
^.^|{set:cellbgcolor:#00FF0020} ✓
^.^| ✓

|{set:cellbgcolor:-} Announcement Blog Post^7^
^.^|
^.^|
^.^|
^.^|{set:cellbgcolor:#00FF0020} ✓

|{set:cellbgcolor:-} Acknowledge in Videos^8^
^.^|
^.^|
^.^|
^.^|{set:cellbgcolor:#00FF0020} ✓

|{set:cellbgcolor:-} Your Logo in the Application^9^ {{< icon "fa-solid fa-rocket" >}}
^.^|
^.^|
^.^|
^.^|{set:cellbgcolor:#00FF0020} ✓

|===

[.sponsor-tier-details]
^1^ Your logo will be listed at
link:{{< relref "sponsors/sponsors/index.adoc" >}}[{{< ref "sponsors/sponsors/index.adoc" >}}].
The order of the listing is defined by tier (higher tiers first), donation
amount (higher donation first within the same tier) and by lifetime donation
amount (within the same tier & donation amount). +
^2^ You can provide us your description text, but we reserve the right to
adjust it to apply consistent wording & rules for all sponsors. The short
form allows up to ca. 250 characters and the long form around 500 characters.
The text will contain a hyperlink to your website's home page, but additional
hyperlinks require our approval. +
^3^ Whenever LibrePCB is officially presented at a conference (e.g. FOSDEM),
all sponsors at the time of the presentation will be explicitly mentioned.
Note that this may not take place every year so we can't guarantee the
promotion at any conference. +
^4^ Your logo will be listed at the bottom of
link:{{< relref "/" >}}[{{< ref "/" >}}]. Note that for Bronze sponsors we
reserve the right to decide which will be listed or not, due to limited space. +
^5^ The start of a new sponsorship will be announced in our primary social
media channel (which is Mastodon at the time of writing). +
^6^ When publishing a new LibrePCB release, we will explicitly acknowledge the
active sponsors at that time for supporting that particular release.
Especially major release announcements often reach a very large audience. +
^7^ For Platinum sponsors we will publish a **dedicated blog post** at
the start of the sponsorship. +
^8^ When publishing a new official tutorial video, active Platinum sponsors
at the time of video production will be explicitly acknowledged in the video.
In case no video was published during the time of sponsorship we will include
the acknowledgement in a video after the sponsorship ended. +
^9^ Your logo will be listed in the "About" section **within the LibrePCB
application**. As the release cycle of LibrePCB is independent of sponsorships,
the logo will be integrated in the first release after the start of the
sponsorship. When cancelling the sponsorship, the logo will be removed after
it has been integrated for at least the duration of the sponsorship. +

[.sponsor-tier-details]
For rare cases we reserve the right to provide slightly more value for money
than stated in the table above to provide a fair chance of small businesses,
non-profit organizations etc. compared to sponsors with a high revenue, or for
sponsors which started the sponsorship before the current tier conditions were
defined.

== Payment

* Payment is done annually and the sponsorship starts at the date of the
  first received payment.
* We accept PayPal (+5% fees), Credit Card through
  link:https://opencollective.com/librepcb[Open Collective] (+10% fees) or bank
  transfer to a Swiss bank account (0% fees for SEPA/EUR; for USD please
  check fees of your bank). The sponsor has to take care of the payment fees.
  For other options or questions, please contact us.
* Note that there is no legal entity behind the LibrePCB project (yet). The
  payment goes to the project lead as a private person and he will use the
  money solely in the interest of the LibrePCB project as stated
  link:{{< relref "help/faq/index.adoc#what-is-the-donated-or-sponsored-money-used-for" >}}[here].
* Since the payment receiver is not a registered foundation, the sponsorship
  does not count as a cheritiable donation (for tax considerations).

== Publicity

We are aware the sponsorship tiers are not cheap and you deserve a fair return.
Our community is not a niche anymore -- and we are constantly growing -- so
your sponsorship will be seen for sure! Here are some statistics about LibrePCB
(updated May 2025):

* Our link:https://snapcraft.io/librepcb/listing[Snap Package] for Linux is
  installed on 8,000 weekly active devices
* Our link:https://flathub.org/apps/org.librepcb.LibrePCB[Flatpak] for Linux is
  installed ca. 2,000 times per month
* Our releases from the website are downloaded ca. 4,000 times per month
* Our website has ca. 20,000 unique visitors per month, up to 60,000 after
  a release announcement
* Our API server gets requests from >6,000 unique devices every month
  (requests are made only by particular actions in the application)

== Interested?

If you're interested or if you have any questions, please contact us at
{{< cloakemail "sponsorship" "librepcb.org" >}}!
Let us know your preferred sponsorship tier and payment method and send us
your logo for the listing (SVG preferred) and optionally your description
text (please respect the length limit^2^).

Commit message:

Clarify sponsorship payment through Open Collective

content/sponsors/tiers/index.adoc, after:

---
title: "Become a LibrePCB Sponsor"
linkTitle: "Become a Sponsor"
weight: 50
url: /become-a-sponsor
---

To be able to provide LibrePCB for free to the electronics community, we rely
on donations. It is our vision that professional PCB design software must
be available for everyone, from hobbyists to professionals.

A LibrePCB sponsorship is a special way of donation which allows the sponsor
to gain visibility and recognition in the electronics community. Let the
people know you share our vision of a free, open & modern PCB design ecosystem!

Or if LibrePCB helps your business in making profit, please consider investing
a fraction of your profit into the development and sustainability of the
LibrePCB project as a fair return.

== Sponsorship Tiers

We offer four predefined levels of sponsorships, with different benefits:

[%header,cols="36,16,16,16,16"]
|===
|
^|{set:cellbgcolor:#CD7F32A0} Bronze
^|{set:cellbgcolor:#A0A0A0A0} Silver
^|{set:cellbgcolor:#E0B020a0} Gold
^|{set:cellbgcolor:#C0C0FFA0} Platinum

|{set:cellbgcolor:-} Annual Donation (USD)
^| **>= $1,000**
^| **>= $2,500**
^| **>= $5,000**
^| **>= $10,000**

|{set:cellbgcolor:-} Your Logo on Sponsors Page^1^
^.^|{set:cellbgcolor:#00FF0020} ✓ [.sponsor-tier-cell-text]#(small, row 4)#
^.^| ✓ [.sponsor-tier-cell-text]#(small, row 3)#
^.^| ✓ [.sponsor-tier-cell-text]#(medium, row 2)#
^.^| ✓ [.sponsor-tier-cell-text]#(large, row 1)#

|{set:cellbgcolor:-} Text on Sponsors Page^2^
^.^|{set:cellbgcolor:#00FF0020} ✓ [.sponsor-tier-cell-text]#(short)#
^.^| ✓ [.sponsor-tier-cell-text]#(short)#
^.^| ✓ [.sponsor-tier-cell-text]#(long)#
^.^| ✓ [.sponsor-tier-cell-text]#(long)#

|{set:cellbgcolor:-} Mention at Conferences^3^
^.^|{set:cellbgcolor:#00FF0020} ✓
^.^| ✓
^.^| ✓
^.^| ✓

|{set:cellbgcolor:-} Your Logo on Home Page^4^
^.^|{set:cellbgcolor:#FFFF0020} [.sponsor-tier-cell-text]#(not guaranteed)#
^.^|{set:cellbgcolor:#00FF0020} ✓
^.^| ✓
^.^| ✓

|{set:cellbgcolor:-} Announcement in Social Media^5^
^.^|
^.^|{set:cellbgcolor:#00FF0020} ✓
^.^| ✓
^.^| ✓

|{set:cellbgcolor:-} Acknowledge in Release Notes^6^
^.^|
^.^|
^.^|{set:cellbgcolor:#00FF0020} ✓
^.^| ✓

|{set:cellbgcolor:-} Announcement Blog Post^7^
^.^|
^.^|
^.^|
^.^|{set:cellbgcolor:#00FF0020} ✓

|{set:cellbgcolor:-} Acknowledge in Videos^8^
^.^|
^.^|
^.^|
^.^|{set:cellbgcolor:#00FF0020} ✓

|{set:cellbgcolor:-} Your Logo in the Application^9^ {{< icon "fa-solid fa-rocket" >}}
^.^|
^.^|
^.^|
^.^|{set:cellbgcolor:#00FF0020} ✓

|===

[.sponsor-tier-details]
^1^ Your logo will be listed at
link:{{< relref "sponsors/sponsors/index.adoc" >}}[{{< ref "sponsors/sponsors/index.adoc" >}}].
The order of the listing is defined by tier (higher tiers first), donation
amount (higher donation first within the same tier) and by lifetime donation
amount (within the same tier & donation amount). +
^2^ You can provide us your description text, but we reserve the right to
adjust it to apply consistent wording & rules for all sponsors. The short
form allows up to ca. 250 characters and the long form around 500 characters.
The text will contain a hyperlink to your website's home page, but additional
hyperlinks require our approval. +
^3^ Whenever LibrePCB is officially presented at a conference (e.g. FOSDEM),
all sponsors at the time of the presentation will be explicitly mentioned.
Note that this may not take place every year so we can't guarantee the
promotion at any conference. +
^4^ Your logo will be listed at the bottom of
link:{{< relref "/" >}}[{{< ref "/" >}}]. Note that for Bronze sponsors we
reserve the right to decide which will be listed or not, due to limited space. +
^5^ The start of a new sponsorship will be announced in our primary social
media channel (which is Mastodon at the time of writing). +
^6^ When publishing a new LibrePCB release, we will explicitly acknowledge the
active sponsors at that time for supporting that particular release.
Especially major release announcements often reach a very large audience. +
^7^ For Platinum sponsors we will publish a **dedicated blog post** at
the start of the sponsorship. +
^8^ When publishing a new official tutorial video, active Platinum sponsors
at the time of video production will be explicitly acknowledged in the video.
In case no video was published during the time of sponsorship we will include
the acknowledgement in a video after the sponsorship ended. +
^9^ Your logo will be listed in the "About" section **within the LibrePCB
application**. As the release cycle of LibrePCB is independent of sponsorships,
the logo will be integrated in the first release after the start of the
sponsorship. When cancelling the sponsorship, the logo will be removed after
it has been integrated for at least the duration of the sponsorship. +

[.sponsor-tier-details]
For rare cases we reserve the right to provide slightly more value for money
than stated in the table above to provide a fair chance of small businesses,
non-profit organizations etc. compared to sponsors with a high revenue, or for
sponsors which started the sponsorship before the current tier conditions were
defined.

== Payment

* Sponsorships are running annually and start at the date of the received
  payment. Sponsorships shorter than 12 months are not possible.
* We accept PayPal (+5% fees), Credit Card through
  link:https://opencollective.com/librepcb[Open Collective] (+13% fees) or bank
  transfer to a Swiss bank account (0% fees for SEPA/EUR; for USD please
  check fees of your bank). The sponsor has to take care of the payment fees.
  For other options or questions, please contact us.
* Note that there is no legal entity behind the LibrePCB project (yet).
  Payments through PayPal or bank transfer go to the project lead as a private
  person and are not subject to VAT. Payments through Open Collective are
  different since they act as a corporate "middleman" and take care of tax
  declaration etc. Due to this service the fees are higher (10% platform fees
  plus ca. 3% payment fees).
* Since the payment receiver is not a registered foundation, the sponsorship
  does not count as a cheritiable donation (for tax considerations).
* The project lead is responsible for all financial aspects of the project and
  he will use any received money solely in the interest of the LibrePCB
  project as stated
  link:{{< relref "help/faq/index.adoc#what-is-the-donated-or-sponsored-money-used-for" >}}[here].

== Publicity

We are aware the sponsorship tiers are not cheap and you deserve a fair return.
Our community is not a niche anymore -- and we are constantly growing -- so
your sponsorship will be seen for sure! Here are some statistics about LibrePCB
(updated May 2025):

* Our link:https://snapcraft.io/librepcb/listing[Snap Package] for Linux is
  installed on 8,000 weekly active devices
* Our link:https://flathub.org/apps/org.librepcb.LibrePCB[Flatpak] for Linux is
  installed ca. 2,000 times per month
* Our releases from the website are downloaded ca. 4,000 times per month
* Our website has ca. 20,000 unique visitors per month, up to 60,000 after
  a release announcement
* Our API server gets requests from >6,000 unique devices every month
  (requests are made only by particular actions in the application)

== Interested?

If you're interested or if you have any questions, please contact us at
{{< cloakemail "sponsorship" "librepcb.org" >}}!
Let us know your preferred sponsorship tier and payment method and send us
your logo for the listing (SVG preferred) and optionally your description
text (please respect the length limit^2^).
